### 1.

**Question:** Text 1       Increasingly consumers are concerned about the chemical bisphenol A or more-widely known as BPA, which is present in certain plastics. The chemical is capable of leaching from plastic containers and liners into our food and drink. European, Canadian, and US governments have recently backtracked on longstanding arguments that BPA was not harmful and now warn that there is evidence that it is harmful to fetuses, infants, and maybe children and adults. Now, researchers announce a new place where the chemical BPA has shown up in surprisingly high concentrations: the world’s oceans.       Scientists have discovered that despite being known for their hardness, polycarbonate plastics actually decompose in oceans, leaching chemicals, including BPA, throughout the marine ecosystem.       “We were quite surprised to find that polycarbonate plastic biodegrades in the environment,” said Dr. Katsuhiko Saido with Nihon University in Chiba, Japan. “Polycarbonates are very hard plastics, so hard they are used to make screwdriver handles, shatter-proof eyeglass lenses, and other very durable products. This finding challenges the wide public belief that hard plastics remain unchanged in the environment for decades or centuries. Biodegradation, of course, releases BPA to the environment.”       Another likely source of the chemical is epoxy plastic paint used to seal ship hulls to protect them from rust and barnacles. “When epoxy resin breaks down, it releases BPA, a typical endocrine disruptor,” Saido explained. “This new finding clearly demonstrates the instability of epoxy, and shows that BPA emissions from epoxy (plastic paint) do reach the ocean. Recent studies have shown that mollusks, crustaceans and amphibians could be affected by BPA, even in low concentrations.”       The researchers analyzed sand and seawater from over 200 sites across 20 countries, focusing on Southeast Asia and North America. All of the results showed what Saido calls “significant” BPA contamination: ranging from 0.01 parts per million to 50 parts per million.       The fact that plastics decompose in the oceans was first recorded last year by Saido and colleagues who showed that light, white-foamed plastic decomposed rapidly in the oceans, releasing toxins. However, this new discovery shows that even some of the world’s toughest plastics disintegrate in the marine environment, polluting it.       According to Saido, plastic is the main type of garbage in marine environments. Littering either directly in the ocean or being carried through waterways into the marine environment, plastics have created vast floating garbage islands. One between California and Hawaii is twice as Texas, and aptly known as the Great Pacific Garbage Patch. Another patch was recently announced floating in the Atlantic Ocean in the western Sargasso Sea; its size is unknown. “Marine debris plastic in the ocean will certainly constitute a new global ocean contamination for long into the future,” Saido predicted.Adapted from:   https://news.mongabay.com/2010/03/bpa-not-just-in-food-and-water-but-contaminating-the-ocean/

**Soal:** What is the writer’s motive in writing the passage?

- A. The need of information about the chemical bisphenol A (BPA).
- B. There is a longstanding debate that BPA was not considered harmful chemical.
- C. There is a misunderstood perception on the effects of the chemical bisphenol A (BPA).
- D. There is a concern related to the contamination of the ocean caused by the chemical bisphenol A (BPA).
- E. Many people have known about the effect of the chemical bisphenol A (BPA) throughout the marine ecosystem.

### 2.

**Question:** Text 1       Increasingly consumers are concerned about the chemical bisphenol A or more-widely known as BPA, which is present in certain plastics. The chemical is capable of leaching from plastic containers and liners into our food and drink. European, Canadian, and US governments have recently backtracked on longstanding arguments that BPA was not harmful and now warn that there is evidence that it is harmful to fetuses, infants, and maybe children and adults. Now, researchers announce a new place where the chemical BPA has shown up in surprisingly high concentrations: the world’s oceans.       Scientists have discovered that despite being known for their hardness, polycarbonate plastics actually decompose in oceans, leaching chemicals, including BPA, throughout the marine ecosystem.       “We were quite surprised to find that polycarbonate plastic biodegrades in the environment,” said Dr. Katsuhiko Saido with Nihon University in Chiba, Japan. “Polycarbonates are very hard plastics, so hard they are used to make screwdriver handles, shatter-proof eyeglass lenses, and other very durable products. This finding challenges the wide public belief that hard plastics remain unchanged in the environment for decades or centuries. Biodegradation, of course, releases BPA to the environment.”       Another likely source of the chemical is epoxy plastic paint used to seal ship hulls to protect them from rust and barnacles. “When epoxy resin breaks down, it releases BPA, a typical endocrine disruptor,” Saido explained. “This new finding clearly demonstrates the instability of epoxy, and shows that BPA emissions from epoxy (plastic paint) do reach the ocean. Recent studies have shown that mollusks, crustaceans and amphibians could be affected by BPA, even in low concentrations.”       The researchers analyzed sand and seawater from over 200 sites across 20 countries, focusing on Southeast Asia and North America. All of the results showed what Saido calls “significant” BPA contamination: ranging from 0.01 parts per million to 50 parts per million.       The fact that plastics decompose in the oceans was first recorded last year by Saido and colleagues who showed that light, white-foamed plastic decomposed rapidly in the oceans, releasing toxins. However, this new discovery shows that even some of the world’s toughest plastics disintegrate in the marine environment, polluting it.       According to Saido, plastic is the main type of garbage in marine environments. Littering either directly in the ocean or being carried through waterways into the marine environment, plastics have created vast floating garbage islands. One between California and Hawaii is twice as Texas, and aptly known as the Great Pacific Garbage Patch. Another patch was recently announced floating in the Atlantic Ocean in the western Sargasso Sea; its size is unknown. “Marine debris plastic in the ocean will certainly constitute a new global ocean contamination for long into the future,” Saido predicted.Adapted from:   https://news.mongabay.com/2010/03/bpa-not-just-in-food-and-water-but-contaminating-the-ocean/

**Soal:** To whom is the passage intended?

- A. Scientists.
- B. Ecologists
- C. Oceanographer.
- D. Environmentalists.
- E. Readers in general.

### 3.

**Question:** Text 1       Increasingly consumers are concerned about the chemical bisphenol A or more-widely known as BPA, which is present in certain plastics. The chemical is capable of leaching from plastic containers and liners into our food and drink. European, Canadian, and US governments have recently backtracked on longstanding arguments that BPA was not harmful and now warn that there is evidence that it is harmful to fetuses, infants, and maybe children and adults. Now, researchers announce a new place where the chemical BPA has shown up in surprisingly high concentrations: the world’s oceans.       Scientists have discovered that despite being known for their hardness, polycarbonate plastics actually decompose in oceans, leaching chemicals, including BPA, throughout the marine ecosystem.       “We were quite surprised to find that polycarbonate plastic biodegrades in the environment,” said Dr. Katsuhiko Saido with Nihon University in Chiba, Japan. “Polycarbonates are very hard plastics, so hard they are used to make screwdriver handles, shatter-proof eyeglass lenses, and other very durable products. This finding challenges the wide public belief that hard plastics remain unchanged in the environment for decades or centuries. Biodegradation, of course, releases BPA to the environment.”       Another likely source of the chemical is epoxy plastic paint used to seal ship hulls to protect them from rust and barnacles. “When epoxy resin breaks down, it releases BPA, a typical endocrine disruptor,” Saido explained. “This new finding clearly demonstrates the instability of epoxy, and shows that BPA emissions from epoxy (plastic paint) do reach the ocean. Recent studies have shown that mollusks, crustaceans and amphibians could be affected by BPA, even in low concentrations.”       The researchers analyzed sand and seawater from over 200 sites across 20 countries, focusing on Southeast Asia and North America. All of the results showed what Saido calls “significant” BPA contamination: ranging from 0.01 parts per million to 50 parts per million.       The fact that plastics decompose in the oceans was first recorded last year by Saido and colleagues who showed that light, white-foamed plastic decomposed rapidly in the oceans, releasing toxins. However, this new discovery shows that even some of the world’s toughest plastics disintegrate in the marine environment, polluting it.       According to Saido, plastic is the main type of garbage in marine environments. Littering either directly in the ocean or being carried through waterways into the marine environment, plastics have created vast floating garbage islands. One between California and Hawaii is twice as Texas, and aptly known as the Great Pacific Garbage Patch. Another patch was recently announced floating in the Atlantic Ocean in the western Sargasso Sea; its size is unknown. “Marine debris plastic in the ocean will certainly constitute a new global ocean contamination for long into the future,” Saido predicted.Adapted from:   https://news.mongabay.com/2010/03/bpa-not-just-in-food-and-water-but-contaminating-the-ocean/

**Soal:** According to the text, what will happen if BPA emissions from epoxy (plastic paint) do reach the ocean?

- A. The BPA concentration in the water will increase and persist longer.
- B. The aquatic species will be extinct due to an increase in phospho-proteins.
- C. Our water sources will be polluted as toxic pollutants contaminate the oceans.
- D. The mollusks, crustaceans and amphibians will be affected by BPA, even in low concentrations.
- E. The marine life will be shrinking since there will be BPA disruption in whole- organism energy balance.

### 4.

**Question:** Text 1       Increasingly consumers are concerned about the chemical bisphenol A or more-widely known as BPA, which is present in certain plastics. The chemical is capable of leaching from plastic containers and liners into our food and drink. European, Canadian, and US governments have recently backtracked on longstanding arguments that BPA was not harmful and now warn that there is evidence that it is harmful to fetuses, infants, and maybe children and adults. Now, researchers announce a new place where the chemical BPA has shown up in surprisingly high concentrations: the world’s oceans.       Scientists have discovered that despite being known for their hardness, polycarbonate plastics actually decompose in oceans, leaching chemicals, including BPA, throughout the marine ecosystem.       “We were quite surprised to find that polycarbonate plastic biodegrades in the environment,” said Dr. Katsuhiko Saido with Nihon University in Chiba, Japan. “Polycarbonates are very hard plastics, so hard they are used to make screwdriver handles, shatter-proof eyeglass lenses, and other very durable products. This finding challenges the wide public belief that hard plastics remain unchanged in the environment for decades or centuries. Biodegradation, of course, releases BPA to the environment.”       Another likely source of the chemical is epoxy plastic paint used to seal ship hulls to protect them from rust and barnacles. “When epoxy resin breaks down, it releases BPA, a typical endocrine disruptor,” Saido explained. “This new finding clearly demonstrates the instability of epoxy, and shows that BPA emissions from epoxy (plastic paint) do reach the ocean. Recent studies have shown that mollusks, crustaceans and amphibians could be affected by BPA, even in low concentrations.”       The researchers analyzed sand and seawater from over 200 sites across 20 countries, focusing on Southeast Asia and North America. All of the results showed what Saido calls “significant” BPA contamination: ranging from 0.01 parts per million to 50 parts per million.       The fact that plastics decompose in the oceans was first recorded last year by Saido and colleagues who showed that light, white-foamed plastic decomposed rapidly in the oceans, releasing toxins. However, this new discovery shows that even some of the world’s toughest plastics disintegrate in the marine environment, polluting it.       According to Saido, plastic is the main type of garbage in marine environments. Littering either directly in the ocean or being carried through waterways into the marine environment, plastics have created vast floating garbage islands. One between California and Hawaii is twice as Texas, and aptly known as the Great Pacific Garbage Patch. Another patch was recently announced floating in the Atlantic Ocean in the western Sargasso Sea; its size is unknown. “Marine debris plastic in the ocean will certainly constitute a new global ocean contamination for long into the future,” Saido predicted.Adapted from:   https://news.mongabay.com/2010/03/bpa-not-just-in-food-and-water-but-contaminating-the-ocean/

**Soal:** Based on the information in the passage, it is predicted that

- A. aquatic organisms can be subjected to higher levels of BPA during certain seasons and may be more sensitive to BPA at specific times.
- B. extensive research on polycarbonate and BPA will conducted in different methods and approaches.
- C. Marine litter containing plastic will be more ubiquitous and plaguing the world’s oceans, causing new ocean contamination around the world.
- D. aquatic ecosystems will be subjected to lower concentrations of BPA which will represent major concerns for environmental health.
- E. BPA concentrations from anthropogenic sites such as landfills, wastewater, and treatment plants will cause them to have high biodiversity.

### 5.

**Question:** Text 1       Increasingly consumers are concerned about the chemical bisphenol A or more-widely known as BPA, which is present in certain plastics. The chemical is capable of leaching from plastic containers and liners into our food and drink. European, Canadian, and US governments have recently backtracked on longstanding arguments that BPA was not harmful and now warn that there is evidence that it is harmful to fetuses, infants, and maybe children and adults. Now, researchers announce a new place where the chemical BPA has shown up in surprisingly high concentrations: the world’s oceans.       Scientists have discovered that despite being known for their hardness, polycarbonate plastics actually decompose in oceans, leaching chemicals, including BPA, throughout the marine ecosystem.       “We were quite surprised to find that polycarbonate plastic biodegrades in the environment,” said Dr. Katsuhiko Saido with Nihon University in Chiba, Japan. “Polycarbonates are very hard plastics, so hard they are used to make screwdriver handles, shatter-proof eyeglass lenses, and other very durable products. This finding challenges the wide public belief that hard plastics remain unchanged in the environment for decades or centuries. Biodegradation, of course, releases BPA to the environment.”       Another likely source of the chemical is epoxy plastic paint used to seal ship hulls to protect them from rust and barnacles. “When epoxy resin breaks down, it releases BPA, a typical endocrine disruptor,” Saido explained. “This new finding clearly demonstrates the instability of epoxy, and shows that BPA emissions from epoxy (plastic paint) do reach the ocean. Recent studies have shown that mollusks, crustaceans and amphibians could be affected by BPA, even in low concentrations.”       The researchers analyzed sand and seawater from over 200 sites across 20 countries, focusing on Southeast Asia and North America. All of the results showed what Saido calls “significant” BPA contamination: ranging from 0.01 parts per million to 50 parts per million.       The fact that plastics decompose in the oceans was first recorded last year by Saido and colleagues who showed that light, white-foamed plastic decomposed rapidly in the oceans, releasing toxins. However, this new discovery shows that even some of the world’s toughest plastics disintegrate in the marine environment, polluting it.       According to Saido, plastic is the main type of garbage in marine environments. Littering either directly in the ocean or being carried through waterways into the marine environment, plastics have created vast floating garbage islands. One between California and Hawaii is twice as Texas, and aptly known as the Great Pacific Garbage Patch. Another patch was recently announced floating in the Atlantic Ocean in the western Sargasso Sea; its size is unknown. “Marine debris plastic in the ocean will certainly constitute a new global ocean contamination for long into the future,” Saido predicted.Adapted from:   https://news.mongabay.com/2010/03/bpa-not-just-in-food-and-water-but-contaminating-the-ocean/

**Soal:** What is the author’s tone toward the passage?

- A. Indifferent.
- B. Informative.
- C. Supporting.
- D. Optimistic.
- E. Subjective.

### 6.

**Question:** Teks 2       Mobile devices are in homes these days; it is not surprising that more parents are using e-books to engage their young children. There is a lot to be said in favor of e-books. They are portable and the text is supplemented with colorful animation and audio that seem to capture the attention of young children. But several studies into reading show that printed books are far better at developing language skills among children, apart from honing their reasoning and thinking abilities. These benefits flow naturally when a child gets immersed in reading at a young age.       One of the most interesting pieces of research in this area was done by Dr John Hutton, a pediatrician and clinical researcher at Cincinnati Children's Hospital in the United States. He took scans of brain activity in children aged three to five, while they were reading e-books and printed books, to understand what is really going on in a child's brain when engaging with these different types of books.       For the printed book, children listened to the story being narrated while big pictures were projected on the screen. The child was then told the same story in e-book format, with a fully animated cartoon and narration. While using the e-book with animation, the brain scans of the children presented a striking drop in overall connectivity among different parts of the brain. The scans also showed the children struggling to keep track of what was happening in the fast-moving animation.       Dr Hutton concluded that reading printed books was better, as the scans showed a balanced integration of the visual networks and the language networks. He explained that printed books with pictures help to develop the "mental muscles" in a child, by allowing him to form mental images and reflect on a story's meaning. With e-books, too much exposure to animation tends to shut down the networks, as the images move too quickly. "When parents show them a video of a story, those short circuits the process - the child does not have to imagine the story - it's being fed to them," said Dr Hutton.       He also pointed to various other studies and concluded that reading to a child from an electronic device undercuts the dynamic that drives language development. Some call this the "serve and return" model of interaction between a parent and a child. This takes place when a parent reads a book with a child - turning pages, pointing at pictures, talking about the story. Dr Hutton noted that those things are lost when parents use an e-book. Apart from developing reading abilities, "serve and return" also develops reasoning, thinking and even creativity in a child.Adapted from https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/parenting-education/screen-vs-print-e-books-seem-more-fun-but-printed-books-benefit-kidsa

**Soal:** In the passage there is a statement like this:       “Mobile devices are in homes these days, it is not surprising that more parents are using e-books to engage their young children. If mobile devices are not in home these days, parents _____ use e-books to engage their children.

- A. are.
- B. are not.
- C. will.
- D. will not.
- E. will be.

### 7.

**Question:** Teks 2       Mobile devices are in homes these days; it is not surprising that more parents are using e-books to engage their young children. There is a lot to be said in favor of e-books. They are portable and the text is supplemented with colorful animation and audio that seem to capture the attention of young children. But several studies into reading show that printed books are far better at developing language skills among children, apart from honing their reasoning and thinking abilities. These benefits flow naturally when a child gets immersed in reading at a young age.       One of the most interesting pieces of research in this area was done by Dr John Hutton, a pediatrician and clinical researcher at Cincinnati Children's Hospital in the United States. He took scans of brain activity in children aged three to five, while they were reading e-books and printed books, to understand what is really going on in a child's brain when engaging with these different types of books.       For the printed book, children listened to the story being narrated while big pictures were projected on the screen. The child was then told the same story in e-book format, with a fully animated cartoon and narration. While using the e-book with animation, the brain scans of the children presented a striking drop in overall connectivity among different parts of the brain. The scans also showed the children struggling to keep track of what was happening in the fast-moving animation.       Dr Hutton concluded that reading printed books was better, as the scans showed a balanced integration of the visual networks and the language networks. He explained that printed books with pictures help to develop the "mental muscles" in a child, by allowing him to form mental images and reflect on a story's meaning. With e-books, too much exposure to animation tends to shut down the networks, as the images move too quickly. "When parents show them a video of a story, those short circuits the process - the child does not have to imagine the story - it's being fed to them," said Dr Hutton.       He also pointed to various other studies and concluded that reading to a child from an electronic device undercuts the dynamic that drives language development. Some call this the "serve and return" model of interaction between a parent and a child. This takes place when a parent reads a book with a child - turning pages, pointing at pictures, talking about the story. Dr Hutton noted that those things are lost when parents use an e-book. Apart from developing reading abilities, "serve and return" also develops reasoning, thinking and even creativity in a child.Adapted from https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/parenting-education/screen-vs-print-e-books-seem-more-fun-but-printed-books-benefit-kidsa

**Soal:** The word ‘benefits’ in paragraph 1 is similar in meaning to

- A. boons.
- B. barriers.
- C. drawbacks.
- D. disadvantages.
- E. improvements.

### 8.

**Question:** Teks 2       Mobile devices are in homes these days; it is not surprising that more parents are using e-books to engage their young children. There is a lot to be said in favor of e-books. They are portable and the text is supplemented with colorful animation and audio that seem to capture the attention of young children. But several studies into reading show that printed books are far better at developing language skills among children, apart from honing their reasoning and thinking abilities. These benefits flow naturally when a child gets immersed in reading at a young age.       One of the most interesting pieces of research in this area was done by Dr John Hutton, a pediatrician and clinical researcher at Cincinnati Children's Hospital in the United States. He took scans of brain activity in children aged three to five, while they were reading e-books and printed books, to understand what is really going on in a child's brain when engaging with these different types of books.       For the printed book, children listened to the story being narrated while big pictures were projected on the screen. The child was then told the same story in e-book format, with a fully animated cartoon and narration. While using the e-book with animation, the brain scans of the children presented a striking drop in overall connectivity among different parts of the brain. The scans also showed the children struggling to keep track of what was happening in the fast-moving animation.       Dr Hutton concluded that reading printed books was better, as the scans showed a balanced integration of the visual networks and the language networks. He explained that printed books with pictures help to develop the "mental muscles" in a child, by allowing him to form mental images and reflect on a story's meaning. With e-books, too much exposure to animation tends to shut down the networks, as the images move too quickly. "When parents show them a video of a story, those short circuits the process - the child does not have to imagine the story - it's being fed to them," said Dr Hutton.       He also pointed to various other studies and concluded that reading to a child from an electronic device undercuts the dynamic that drives language development. Some call this the "serve and return" model of interaction between a parent and a child. This takes place when a parent reads a book with a child - turning pages, pointing at pictures, talking about the story. Dr Hutton noted that those things are lost when parents use an e-book. Apart from developing reading abilities, "serve and return" also develops reasoning, thinking and even creativity in a child.Adapted from https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/parenting-education/screen-vs-print-e-books-seem-more-fun-but-printed-books-benefit-kidsa

**Soal:** The paragraph following the passage most likely discusses about

- A. parents’ strategy in developing children’s reading ability
- B. reasons for developing children’s reasoning and thinking ability.
- C. why e-books plays many roles in developing children’s reading ability.
- D. how “serve and return” interaction model develop children’s reasoning and thinking ability.
- E. how interaction model influence the development of reasoning, thinking and creativity among children.

### 9.

**Question:** Teks 2       Mobile devices are in homes these days; it is not surprising that more parents are using e-books to engage their young children. There is a lot to be said in favor of e-books. They are portable and the text is supplemented with colorful animation and audio that seem to capture the attention of young children. But several studies into reading show that printed books are far better at developing language skills among children, apart from honing their reasoning and thinking abilities. These benefits flow naturally when a child gets immersed in reading at a young age.       One of the most interesting pieces of research in this area was done by Dr John Hutton, a pediatrician and clinical researcher at Cincinnati Children's Hospital in the United States. He took scans of brain activity in children aged three to five, while they were reading e-books and printed books, to understand what is really going on in a child's brain when engaging with these different types of books.       For the printed book, children listened to the story being narrated while big pictures were projected on the screen. The child was then told the same story in e-book format, with a fully animated cartoon and narration. While using the e-book with animation, the brain scans of the children presented a striking drop in overall connectivity among different parts of the brain. The scans also showed the children struggling to keep track of what was happening in the fast-moving animation.       Dr Hutton concluded that reading printed books was better, as the scans showed a balanced integration of the visual networks and the language networks. He explained that printed books with pictures help to develop the "mental muscles" in a child, by allowing him to form mental images and reflect on a story's meaning. With e-books, too much exposure to animation tends to shut down the networks, as the images move too quickly. "When parents show them a video of a story, those short circuits the process - the child does not have to imagine the story - it's being fed to them," said Dr Hutton.       He also pointed to various other studies and concluded that reading to a child from an electronic device undercuts the dynamic that drives language development. Some call this the "serve and return" model of interaction between a parent and a child. This takes place when a parent reads a book with a child - turning pages, pointing at pictures, talking about the story. Dr Hutton noted that those things are lost when parents use an e-book. Apart from developing reading abilities, "serve and return" also develops reasoning, thinking and even creativity in a child.Adapted from https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/parenting-education/screen-vs-print-e-books-seem-more-fun-but-printed-books-benefit-kidsa

**Soal:** According to the passage, the flood of mobile devices makes e-books as a media to engage with children

- A. expensive.
- B. emotional.
- C. susceptible.
- D. unavoidable.
- E. demonstrative.

### 10.

**Question:** Teks 2       Mobile devices are in homes these days; it is not surprising that more parents are using e-books to engage their young children. There is a lot to be said in favor of e-books. They are portable and the text is supplemented with colorful animation and audio that seem to capture the attention of young children. But several studies into reading show that printed books are far better at developing language skills among children, apart from honing their reasoning and thinking abilities. These benefits flow naturally when a child gets immersed in reading at a young age.       One of the most interesting pieces of research in this area was done by Dr John Hutton, a pediatrician and clinical researcher at Cincinnati Children's Hospital in the United States. He took scans of brain activity in children aged three to five, while they were reading e-books and printed books, to understand what is really going on in a child's brain when engaging with these different types of books.       For the printed book, children listened to the story being narrated while big pictures were projected on the screen. The child was then told the same story in e-book format, with a fully animated cartoon and narration. While using the e-book with animation, the brain scans of the children presented a striking drop in overall connectivity among different parts of the brain. The scans also showed the children struggling to keep track of what was happening in the fast-moving animation.       Dr Hutton concluded that reading printed books was better, as the scans showed a balanced integration of the visual networks and the language networks. He explained that printed books with pictures help to develop the "mental muscles" in a child, by allowing him to form mental images and reflect on a story's meaning. With e-books, too much exposure to animation tends to shut down the networks, as the images move too quickly. "When parents show them a video of a story, those short circuits the process - the child does not have to imagine the story - it's being fed to them," said Dr Hutton.       He also pointed to various other studies and concluded that reading to a child from an electronic device undercuts the dynamic that drives language development. Some call this the "serve and return" model of interaction between a parent and a child. This takes place when a parent reads a book with a child - turning pages, pointing at pictures, talking about the story. Dr Hutton noted that those things are lost when parents use an e-book. Apart from developing reading abilities, "serve and return" also develops reasoning, thinking and even creativity in a child.Adapted from https://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/parenting-education/screen-vs-print-e-books-seem-more-fun-but-printed-books-benefit-kidsa

**Soal:** “This takes place when a parent reads a book with a child - turning pages, pointing at pictures, talking about the story”.       The underlined word refers to

- A. "serve and return" model of interaction.
- B. children’s exposure to animation in e-book.
- C. reading printed books and e-books.
- D. children’s reasoning and thinking abilities.
- E. reading to a child from an electronic device.

### 11.

**Question:** Text 3       More and more businesses are implementing remote work because of its numerous benefits. Boost in productivity, access to a wider pool of talent, and lower operating costs are some that immediately come to mind. But for many small- or medium-sized business (SMB) leaders, deciding whether to stick to an office-based setup and integrating a remote workforce is hardly black and white, especially now during the COVID-19 outbreak.       As you make a decision, consider how telecommuting will affect your SMB during this global viral outbreak. It’s widely acknowledged that remote workers are more productive than those who work strictly in the office. During an outbreak or a pandemic, employees will feel especially incentivized and could be even more productive. After all, they’re better able to manage their schedule and work in a familiar environment. And it’s not just because they don’t have to commute or drive to the office.       There’s little doubt that remote work should be normalized, and particularly during a pandemic, in which a fully distributed workforce lets your business continue to operate. With a well-thought-out remote work setup, staff is able to focus better on their tasks compared to when they’re at the office where there are plenty of distractions.       However, solitary work setups have downsides too. And given the massive social and environmental changes that a pandemic like COVID-19 brings, some studies on the benefits of working from home conducted in the last few years and under controlled environments may no longer apply. Besides, cybercriminals never rest and might leverage businesses’ precarious situation by targeting individuals’ computers. Staff may also be exposed to security threats they wouldn’t otherwise be exposed to if they work from the office using company computers that are relatively better protected.       A balanced and ideal work setup is one where various scenarios are carefully thought-out, employee welfare is well-considered, and business priorities are in order, particularly while dealing with an unprecedented pandemic.Adapted from https://www.onlinecomputers.com

**Soal:** It can be inferred from paragraph 1 that

- A. pandemic Covid 19 triggers SMB companied to attach with remote work.
- B. big companies never want to implement remote work because of its harm.
- C. remote work risks the employee’s personal computer for it is not securely protected.
- D. SMB companies’ leader has to think carefully if they want to implement remote work.
- E. some SMB companies are successfully hire employees who stand for remote work.

### 12.

**Question:** Text 3       More and more businesses are implementing remote work because of its numerous benefits. Boost in productivity, access to a wider pool of talent, and lower operating costs are some that immediately come to mind. But for many small- or medium-sized business (SMB) leaders, deciding whether to stick to an office-based setup and integrating a remote workforce is hardly black and white, especially now during the COVID-19 outbreak.       As you make a decision, consider how telecommuting will affect your SMB during this global viral outbreak. It’s widely acknowledged that remote workers are more productive than those who work strictly in the office. During an outbreak or a pandemic, employees will feel especially incentivized and could be even more productive. After all, they’re better able to manage their schedule and work in a familiar environment. And it’s not just because they don’t have to commute or drive to the office.       There’s little doubt that remote work should be normalized, and particularly during a pandemic, in which a fully distributed workforce lets your business continue to operate. With a well-thought-out remote work setup, staff is able to focus better on their tasks compared to when they’re at the office where there are plenty of distractions.       However, solitary work setups have downsides too. And given the massive social and environmental changes that a pandemic like COVID-19 brings, some studies on the benefits of working from home conducted in the last few years and under controlled environments may no longer apply. Besides, cybercriminals never rest and might leverage businesses’ precarious situation by targeting individuals’ computers. Staff may also be exposed to security threats they wouldn’t otherwise be exposed to if they work from the office using company computers that are relatively better protected.       A balanced and ideal work setup is one where various scenarios are carefully thought-out, employee welfare is well-considered, and business priorities are in order, particularly while dealing with an unprecedented pandemic.Adapted from https://www.onlinecomputers.com

**Soal:** The author mentions a balanced and ideal work setup for remote work in

- A. paragraph 1.
- B. paragraph 2.
- C. paragraph 3.
- D. paragraph 4.
- E. Paragraph 5.

### 13.

**Question:** Text 3       More and more businesses are implementing remote work because of its numerous benefits. Boost in productivity, access to a wider pool of talent, and lower operating costs are some that immediately come to mind. But for many small- or medium-sized business (SMB) leaders, deciding whether to stick to an office-based setup and integrating a remote workforce is hardly black and white, especially now during the COVID-19 outbreak.       As you make a decision, consider how telecommuting will affect your SMB during this global viral outbreak. It’s widely acknowledged that remote workers are more productive than those who work strictly in the office. During an outbreak or a pandemic, employees will feel especially incentivized and could be even more productive. After all, they’re better able to manage their schedule and work in a familiar environment. And it’s not just because they don’t have to commute or drive to the office.       There’s little doubt that remote work should be normalized, and particularly during a pandemic, in which a fully distributed workforce lets your business continue to operate. With a well-thought-out remote work setup, staff is able to focus better on their tasks compared to when they’re at the office where there are plenty of distractions.       However, solitary work setups have downsides too. And given the massive social and environmental changes that a pandemic like COVID-19 brings, some studies on the benefits of working from home conducted in the last few years and under controlled environments may no longer apply. Besides, cybercriminals never rest and might leverage businesses’ precarious situation by targeting individuals’ computers. Staff may also be exposed to security threats they wouldn’t otherwise be exposed to if they work from the office using company computers that are relatively better protected.       A balanced and ideal work setup is one where various scenarios are carefully thought-out, employee welfare is well-considered, and business priorities are in order, particularly while dealing with an unprecedented pandemic.Adapted from https://www.onlinecomputers.com

**Soal:** The author would apparently agree that remote work and telecommuting discussed in the passage is similar to the phenomenon between

- A. fuel and engine
- B. red and braveness.
- C. quarantine and isolation
- D. vaccine and medication.
- E. tiredness and work performance.

### 14.

**Question:** Text 3       More and more businesses are implementing remote work because of its numerous benefits. Boost in productivity, access to a wider pool of talent, and lower operating costs are some that immediately come to mind. But for many small- or medium-sized business (SMB) leaders, deciding whether to stick to an office-based setup and integrating a remote workforce is hardly black and white, especially now during the COVID-19 outbreak.       As you make a decision, consider how telecommuting will affect your SMB during this global viral outbreak. It’s widely acknowledged that remote workers are more productive than those who work strictly in the office. During an outbreak or a pandemic, employees will feel especially incentivized and could be even more productive. After all, they’re better able to manage their schedule and work in a familiar environment. And it’s not just because they don’t have to commute or drive to the office.       There’s little doubt that remote work should be normalized, and particularly during a pandemic, in which a fully distributed workforce lets your business continue to operate. With a well-thought-out remote work setup, staff is able to focus better on their tasks compared to when they’re at the office where there are plenty of distractions.       However, solitary work setups have downsides too. And given the massive social and environmental changes that a pandemic like COVID-19 brings, some studies on the benefits of working from home conducted in the last few years and under controlled environments may no longer apply. Besides, cybercriminals never rest and might leverage businesses’ precarious situation by targeting individuals’ computers. Staff may also be exposed to security threats they wouldn’t otherwise be exposed to if they work from the office using company computers that are relatively better protected.       A balanced and ideal work setup is one where various scenarios are carefully thought-out, employee welfare is well-considered, and business priorities are in order, particularly while dealing with an unprecedented pandemic.Adapted from https://www.onlinecomputers.com

**Soal:** The option that best completes the last sentence of the passage is

- A. Prepare the worst for the effects of this pandemic not only for yourself but also for other workers in the world.
- B. Therefore, the company owner shouldn’t be doubt in implementing remote workforce for it gives more benefits than challenges.
- C. To have a careful thought many business owners should conduct staff training so that all the employees will ready to work at the office.
- D. Consider both the benefits and challenges that come with integrating a remote workforce and design one that’s right for your company.
- E. Decide what you want the company be, and let the employees choose what situation that is suitable for their background study and their convenience

### 15.

**Question:** Text 3       More and more businesses are implementing remote work because of its numerous benefits. Boost in productivity, access to a wider pool of talent, and lower operating costs are some that immediately come to mind. But for many small- or medium-sized business (SMB) leaders, deciding whether to stick to an office-based setup and integrating a remote workforce is hardly black and white, especially now during the COVID-19 outbreak.       As you make a decision, consider how telecommuting will affect your SMB during this global viral outbreak. It’s widely acknowledged that remote workers are more productive than those who work strictly in the office. During an outbreak or a pandemic, employees will feel especially incentivized and could be even more productive. After all, they’re better able to manage their schedule and work in a familiar environment. And it’s not just because they don’t have to commute or drive to the office.       There’s little doubt that remote work should be normalized, and particularly during a pandemic, in which a fully distributed workforce lets your business continue to operate. With a well-thought-out remote work setup, staff is able to focus better on their tasks compared to when they’re at the office where there are plenty of distractions.       However, solitary work setups have downsides too. And given the massive social and environmental changes that a pandemic like COVID-19 brings, some studies on the benefits of working from home conducted in the last few years and under controlled environments may no longer apply. Besides, cybercriminals never rest and might leverage businesses’ precarious situation by targeting individuals’ computers. Staff may also be exposed to security threats they wouldn’t otherwise be exposed to if they work from the office using company computers that are relatively better protected.       A balanced and ideal work setup is one where various scenarios are carefully thought-out, employee welfare is well-considered, and business priorities are in order, particularly while dealing with an unprecedented pandemic.Adapted from https://www.onlinecomputers.com

**Soal:** The topic of the passage above is about

- A. Benefits and downsides of remote work during pandemic.
- B. advantages and disadvantages related to employees’ productivity.
- C. Individual- and work-related aspects during the Covid-19 outbreak.
- D. Workplace isolation as important key feature of WFH during the pandemic.
- E. specific work conditions affecting remote work during the Covid-19 crisis.

### 16.

**Question:** Text 4Juggle Roles 19/06/2022 at 06:05 amCan I run two jobs at the same time, but the work hours are different?I would like to take up night shift job along with the current job, would it be possible?Shahzad 19/06/2022 at 08:12 amIt's all depends upon the contract or agreement you have made with the company you are currently working. If it doesn't bound you to work on any other paid job then you can go for an additional job.DarrenA6 19/06/2022 at 2:35 pmOf course not! Your employer may not permit you to have a second job, or to do freelance work in the same, or even an unrelated, field – particularly if you work at your main job full time. Your performance in all of your roles could also suffer if you end up working too many hours each week. You'll end up being too tired to give your bestLaureen 19/06/2022 at 4:27 pmOf course, you can. So, what are the benefits of doing multiple jobs? First, you have the opportunity to earn more. Your income could be more secure than with just one job. Next, managing two roles can be refreshing, you see new people, and cope with different responsibilities. Then, you will learn new set of skills and you can extend your professional network – both of which could further your career at some point.Marion 20/06/2022 at 09:10 amTAKE CONTROL OF YOUR DEVELOPMENT!Join Mind Tools – 25% off until June 31st – all membership plans!Your development should be your top priority.  Start feeling empowered to take ownership of your career and invest in learning the skills you need to excel in your role.  Charles Handy 20/06/2022 at 11:45 amAs a HR manager, I would say that doing two jobs can be incredibly challenging and it can also open up many opportunities. It's important to have excellent time management skills and be open with employers about what you're doing.a

**Soal:** What is the purpose of the text?

- A. To give opinion on regular full time jobs.
- B. To discuss about handling multiple jobs.
- C. To explain the benefits of having two jobs.
- D. To inform how to survive in a toxic workplace
- E. To ask for opinion regarding running two jobs.

### 17.

**Question:** Text 4Juggle Roles 19/06/2022 at 06:05 amCan I run two jobs at the same time, but the work hours are different?I would like to take up night shift job along with the current job, would it be possible?Shahzad 19/06/2022 at 08:12 amIt's all depends upon the contract or agreement you have made with the company you are currently working. If it doesn't bound you to work on any other paid job then you can go for an additional job.DarrenA6 19/06/2022 at 2:35 pmOf course not! Your employer may not permit you to have a second job, or to do freelance work in the same, or even an unrelated, field – particularly if you work at your main job full time. Your performance in all of your roles could also suffer if you end up working too many hours each week. You'll end up being too tired to give your bestLaureen 19/06/2022 at 4:27 pmOf course, you can. So, what are the benefits of doing multiple jobs? First, you have the opportunity to earn more. Your income could be more secure than with just one job. Next, managing two roles can be refreshing, you see new people, and cope with different responsibilities. Then, you will learn new set of skills and you can extend your professional network – both of which could further your career at some point.Marion 20/06/2022 at 09:10 amTAKE CONTROL OF YOUR DEVELOPMENT!Join Mind Tools – 25% off until June 31st – all membership plans!Your development should be your top priority.  Start feeling empowered to take ownership of your career and invest in learning the skills you need to excel in your role.  Charles Handy 20/06/2022 at 11:45 amAs a HR manager, I would say that doing two jobs can be incredibly challenging and it can also open up many opportunities. It's important to have excellent time management skills and be open with employers about what you're doing.a

**Soal:** “…, and cope with different responsibilities.” The underlined word is closest in meaning to

- A. Let down
- B. Get over
- C. Deal with
- D. Let for
- E. Refuse in

### 18.

**Question:** Text 4Juggle Roles 19/06/2022 at 06:05 amCan I run two jobs at the same time, but the work hours are different?I would like to take up night shift job along with the current job, would it be possible?Shahzad 19/06/2022 at 08:12 amIt's all depends upon the contract or agreement you have made with the company you are currently working. If it doesn't bound you to work on any other paid job then you can go for an additional job.DarrenA6 19/06/2022 at 2:35 pmOf course not! Your employer may not permit you to have a second job, or to do freelance work in the same, or even an unrelated, field – particularly if you work at your main job full time. Your performance in all of your roles could also suffer if you end up working too many hours each week. You'll end up being too tired to give your bestLaureen 19/06/2022 at 4:27 pmOf course, you can. So, what are the benefits of doing multiple jobs? First, you have the opportunity to earn more. Your income could be more secure than with just one job. Next, managing two roles can be refreshing, you see new people, and cope with different responsibilities. Then, you will learn new set of skills and you can extend your professional network – both of which could further your career at some point.Marion 20/06/2022 at 09:10 amTAKE CONTROL OF YOUR DEVELOPMENT!Join Mind Tools – 25% off until June 31st – all membership plans!Your development should be your top priority.  Start feeling empowered to take ownership of your career and invest in learning the skills you need to excel in your role.  Charles Handy 20/06/2022 at 11:45 amAs a HR manager, I would say that doing two jobs can be incredibly challenging and it can also open up many opportunities. It's important to have excellent time management skills and be open with employers about what you're doing.a

**Soal:** What is the tone of the opinion given by Laureen regarding the problem being discussed?

- A. Supportive.
- B. Indifferent.
- C. Pessimistic.
- D. Negative.
- E. Concerned.

### 19.

**Question:** Text 4Juggle Roles 19/06/2022 at 06:05 amCan I run two jobs at the same time, but the work hours are different?I would like to take up night shift job along with the current job, would it be possible?Shahzad 19/06/2022 at 08:12 amIt's all depends upon the contract or agreement you have made with the company you are currently working. If it doesn't bound you to work on any other paid job then you can go for an additional job.DarrenA6 19/06/2022 at 2:35 pmOf course not! Your employer may not permit you to have a second job, or to do freelance work in the same, or even an unrelated, field – particularly if you work at your main job full time. Your performance in all of your roles could also suffer if you end up working too many hours each week. You'll end up being too tired to give your bestLaureen 19/06/2022 at 4:27 pmOf course, you can. So, what are the benefits of doing multiple jobs? First, you have the opportunity to earn more. Your income could be more secure than with just one job. Next, managing two roles can be refreshing, you see new people, and cope with different responsibilities. Then, you will learn new set of skills and you can extend your professional network – both of which could further your career at some point.Marion 20/06/2022 at 09:10 amTAKE CONTROL OF YOUR DEVELOPMENT!Join Mind Tools – 25% off until June 31st – all membership plans!Your development should be your top priority.  Start feeling empowered to take ownership of your career and invest in learning the skills you need to excel in your role.  Charles Handy 20/06/2022 at 11:45 amAs a HR manager, I would say that doing two jobs can be incredibly challenging and it can also open up many opportunities. It's important to have excellent time management skills and be open with employers about what you're doing.a

**Soal:** Who posted the most unreliable opinion to Juggle Roles’s thread?

- A. Charles Handy.
- B. Marion.
- C. DarrenA6.
- D. Shahzad.
- E. Laureen.

### 20.

**Question:** Text 4Juggle Roles 19/06/2022 at 06:05 amCan I run two jobs at the same time, but the work hours are different?I would like to take up night shift job along with the current job, would it be possible?Shahzad 19/06/2022 at 08:12 amIt's all depends upon the contract or agreement you have made with the company you are currently working. If it doesn't bound you to work on any other paid job then you can go for an additional job.DarrenA6 19/06/2022 at 2:35 pmOf course not! Your employer may not permit you to have a second job, or to do freelance work in the same, or even an unrelated, field – particularly if you work at your main job full time. Your performance in all of your roles could also suffer if you end up working too many hours each week. You'll end up being too tired to give your bestLaureen 19/06/2022 at 4:27 pmOf course, you can. So, what are the benefits of doing multiple jobs? First, you have the opportunity to earn more. Your income could be more secure than with just one job. Next, managing two roles can be refreshing, you see new people, and cope with different responsibilities. Then, you will learn new set of skills and you can extend your professional network – both of which could further your career at some point.Marion 20/06/2022 at 09:10 amTAKE CONTROL OF YOUR DEVELOPMENT!Join Mind Tools – 25% off until June 31st – all membership plans!Your development should be your top priority.  Start feeling empowered to take ownership of your career and invest in learning the skills you need to excel in your role.  Charles Handy 20/06/2022 at 11:45 amAs a HR manager, I would say that doing two jobs can be incredibly challenging and it can also open up many opportunities. It's important to have excellent time management skills and be open with employers about what you're doing.a

**Soal:** Who suggested Juggle Roles to have excellent time management skills and be open with employers if he wants to take two jobs at the same time?

- A. Marion.
- B. Shahzad.
- C. Laureen.
- D. DarrenA6.
- E. Charles Handy

